[narrator] Previously on Lost:
- Hugo, you can go back to your camp.
- What about my friends?
Your job is to tell the rest of your
people they can never come here.
Rest in peace, Mr. Eko.
And thank you for helping me find my...
I don't care what Jack said.
They've got him and we have
to get him back. I owe him that.
The Pearl is a monitoring station
where the activities of participants
in Dharma Initiative projects
can be observed and recorded.
[gasps]
I guess he'll be expecting us.
[woman] To the left of it.
Put it over there.
A Ping-Pong table?
Where'd the hell that come from?
Jin found it when he was out
looking for firewood.
We made legs for it and paddles.
Now all we need is a ball.
Found it?
Must have landed in the jungle
when the hatch exploded.
- I thought the hatch collapsed.
- All I know is the sky turned purple.
After that I don't ask questions.
| just make myself a salad and move on.
Yeah, I can see that's working for you.
Hey, you seen Kate around?
Wow, she's not back yet?
Hmm.
You guys find anything
we can use for a ball?
[man] No.
Hey, that's my Guns and Ammo.
Where the hell did you get it?
It was in the magazine stack.
We share things now.
Listen, Zorro, it was in my stuff.
Stuff you decided to party with
while you thought I was dead.
Listen, hillbilly,
if you want it that bad, take it.
Just keep it.
We need to eat.
Are we still on course?
We're still heading north
on a bearing of three-zero-five.
- Yes.
- l'm sensing a lack of confidence.
We've been walking for two days
following a bearing
provided by the carvings on a stick.
- And?
- We're going to chance upon the Others?
I don't know what we're going
to chance on, Sayid, but...
...my bearing is
the only bearing we've got.
I'm going to find some fruit.
Then we're going to have a rational
conversation regarding our next move.
[distant clanging]
[clanging continues]
- [whistling]
- [gun cocking]
[mooing]
You all looking for something...
like this?
Cool, a ball.
Ah-ah-ah. We need to do
a little quid pro quo first.
I've been gone, you thought the store
was having a going-out-of—business sale,
but now I'm back
and I want what's mine.
Yeah, but it wasn't
really yours to begin with.
A, It was mine when I took it.
B, Who the hell are you?
And C, Because I'm fair,
I'm going to let you play me for it.
Play Ping-Pong?
That's right, Avalanche.
You bastards put up your best player.
One game.
And when l crush them,
you all got to bring me
every piece of my stash back.
If you lose?
I ain't gonna lose, but...
...ifldo...
...tell you what, name it.
[speaking Korean]
Ooh. Looks like Crouching Tiger
and Hidden Dragon got something good.
Lay it on me.
No nicknames.
If you lose,
no nicknames for anyone.
For a week.
Nice.
You're on.
Pick your player.
I'll be back in an hour,
then let the slaughter begin.
[Locke] Are you sure
it's completely isolated?
l've circled the house.
There's nothing but jungle
surrounding it. Here.
[Locke] That dish still work?
A dish of that size would have
broadcasting capabilities
of thousands of miles.
Danielle, you once mentioned
a radio tower.
- Is this it?
- l have never been here before.
The man in the house,
seen him before?
On a video feed
from the Pearl Station.
- So who is he?
- Only one way to find out.
- We ask him.
- What's this for?
If I'm unarmed,
he won't feel threatened.
In case he is threatened,
you can cover me from here.
Hey, where are you going?
l have no interest
in that man inside the house.
l have survived on the island
precisely by avoiding
these types of encounters.
I'll wait for you by the stream.
For those of you who survive.
- [Arabic music plays]
- [men chattering in Arabic]
Najeev. Najeev.
[speaks Arabic]
[people chattering]
- Did you cook this?
- Yes. I did.
Well, it's delicious.
My name is Sami.
Najeev. Thank you.
Please, sit. Sit.
So where are you from, Najeev?
- I'm Syrian.
- Please.
[speaks Arabic]
What do you want from me?
You're an excellent cook.
And I... l have a restaurant...
...much nicer than this place.
Come take a look.
If you like it, I will hire you
at twice your pay here.
You're offering a stranger a job
because of a single meal?
I'm offering you a job
because we are outsiders here.
And because, uh...
my chefjust quit.
[whinnies quietly]
- [gunfire]
- [grunting]
- No, he's been hit.
- Not yet. You want to get shot too?
I didn't cross the line!
We had a truce.
This is my land.
You said I could stay here.
No. lam not who you think I am!
My name is Sayid Jarrah.
l was on a plane
that crashed here months ago.
- A plane?
- l'm unarmed. I swear.
Stay right there.
[gunfire]
Drop the rifle!
Drop it right now!
Back up. Back up.
Are you all right?
You really did crash here?
Over 40 of us, yes.
I'll go in first, make sure it's OK.
Who are you?
My name is Mikhail Bakunin.
And I am the last living member
of the Dharma Initiative.
Watch your step.
[groaning]
Please.
Sit.
Here, let me.
You've had experience
treating gunshot wounds?
[Mikhail] I spent some time
in Afghanistan.
I had experience with field
medicine in the Soviet Army.
In the kitchen on the top shelf
there is a medical kit.
Will you bring it, please?
It's all right, Kate.
- How did you get here?
- I almost don't know where to begin.
Why don't you begin
with the Dharma Initiative?
[Mikhail] I grew up in Kiev
and joined the Soviet Army.
l was stationed at
a listening post in Vladivostok.
After the Cold War...
...after we lost the Cold War,
my unit was decommissioned.
l was dismissed
from my life in the military.
And after years of conducting
unpleasant actions against our enemies,
I found myself wanting
to do something good.
So I replied to
a newspaper advertisement.
- An advertisement?
- "Would you like to save the world?"
That's how I met them. The Initiative.
Very secretive. Very rich.
And very smart.
- So when did you come to the island?
- Eleven years now.
I liked computers,
communications equipment,
and being alone,
like a lighthouse keeper.
So they put me in this station.
- They called it "the Flame."
- What's the purpose of the Flame?
To communicate with
the outside world, of course.
[computer melody plays]
[computer voice] Ready to play?
[melody plays]
Ready to play?
Your move.
What happened
to the Dharma Initiative?
They're all dead, of course.
They foolishly initiated a war
against the Hostiles.
A "purge," they called it.
And how did you survive this purge?
By not participating in it.
I told you, I like being alone.
And the Hostiles
allowed you to stay here?
After it was over,
four men appeared in the yard.
They offered a truce.
They said to imagine a line that
extended all the way around the valley.
As long as I did not cross it,
I would be left alone.
Then they took two cows
and I never saw them again.
They weren't interested in the dish?
Why would they be?
It hasn't functioned for years.
Who are they, these Hostiles?
I do not know.
But they were here
for a long time before we were.
A very long time.
[groans]
[woman laughing]
[Arabic music playing]
[men chattering in Arabic]
I'm looking for Sami.
Sami!
Najeev, I am so glad you came.
What do you think?
It's a simple place, as you can see,
but we have good customers.
Ah, here's my wife.
She's in charge of the kitchen.
Amira, come meet Najeev.
Pleasure to meet you.
Are you sure this is him?
Yes.
Look, I don't know
who you think I am.
[grunting]
[panting]
[speaks Russian]
What did you just say?
I told Nadia to be polite
because you are my guests.
- Nadia?
- Mmm.
After Nadia Comaneci,
the greatest athlete
the world has ever known.
We have the same birthday.
What?
[speaks Russian]
Excellent work, if I say myself.
Thank you, Mikhail.
Perhaps I can begin to earn your
forgiveness by offering some iced tea?
I will also check on your friend.
[door opens]
[chuckles] Don't waste your time.
For ten years I've tried
to defeat that game,
but it was programmed
by three grand masters.
And it cheats.
- Hmm.
- Ready to play?
I've played computers and I'm pretty
sure they don't know how to cheat.
That's what makes
being human so distinctly...
- ...wonderful.
- [melody plays]
Your move.
What's wrong?
It just... It doesn't make any sense.
Why would they let him stay here...
with all this stuff?
- All this equipment?
- Actually it makes perfect sense.
What are you talking about?
The reason they let him stay here
is because he is not Dharma.
He is one of them.
He shot you and you just let him...?
Why are we still sitting here?
We are sitting here, Kate,
because I am certain he is not alone.
So...
...you really the number one
draft pick, Grimace?
Yep.
- Are we playing with the mercy rule?
- Mercy rule?
Yeah, like if I'm up 11-0,
then I, you know,
automatically win.
- You're gonna go up 11-0?
- No, I mean either one of us.
Sure. We can have a mercy rule.
- You want to volley for serve?
- I'll tell you what.
- Be my guest.
- Take him down, Hurley.
- [cheering]
- [clapping]
[woman] Go for it.
Come on, Hurley.
Zero serving zero.
Yes!
One-nothing.
I grow the tea myself.
So pardon its bitterness.
Any tea is good tea.
You know how long it's been
since we've seen ice?
I noticed a series of thick wires
as I walked around the station.
This is the hub, but they go underground
to various stations all over the island.
And these cables, do any of them
run into the ocean?
Yes, there is an underwater beacon
that emits sonar pings
to help guide in the vessels.
- By vessels, you mean submarines?
- Yes.
The Initiative used one
to bring us here.
But I can imagine only
that the Hostiles have either
destroyed or commandeered it by now.
That explains how they were able
to get around my position
- and capture our sailboat.
- You had a sailboat?
Until we lost it to your Hostiles.
That's very unfortunate.
Well...
...at least we were able
to kill one of them.
Why are we continuing
to play this little game...
...when we all know it has
moved to the next stage?
[gun cocking]
[grunting]
Get some rope.
[door opens]
[door slams]
Drink.
You were a torturer, were you not?
In the Republican Guard.
Do you not recognize...
...one of your victims?
Do you not recognize
the woman that you tortured?
Do you not recognize my wife?
No. I've never seen...
You've confused me with someone else.
Amira was arrested for harboring
an enemy of the state.
She was held for three months
while she was questioned.
Her arms bear the scars
of those questions.
So I assure you, Najeev,
I am not confused.
- My name is not Najeev.
- Hmm.
I'm Sayid Jarrah.
I was in the Republican Guard
and, yes, lwas an interrogator,
but I have never seen your wife.
Maybe she saw me at the same facility,
but I do not know her!
I can remember every face
of every person I've interrogated.
She remembers your face.
She remembers it so well
that she recognized it
from a mere glimpse
when we walked by the restaurant
where you worked!
What do you want from me?
I want you to admit to what you did.
And if you don't...
...you will leave this room
in that bag.
How do you know he isn't alone?
The horse outside is still saddled,
and the stirrups are set up
for someone shorter than this man.
You think the Others
sent someone to keep him company?
They sent someone out here
because they lost communications.
Maybe when the sky turned purple?
That would be my guess.
If someone's here,
they're hiding good.
I checked every nook
and cranny of this place.
Not every nook and cranny, John.
[door opens]
[door slams]
Are you ready to tell me the truth?
I have told you the truth.
I do not know you.
You tortured her.
No, I would never touch a woman.
Do you think this will do any good?
That this will make me confess
to something I didn't do?
My wife confessed to something
she didn't do.
She confessed when you poured
a pan of boiling oil over her arms.
- No. I did not. You have the wrong...
- Admit it!
Admit it!
I cannot admit
to something I didn't do.
That is enough for today.
Then I will see you tomorrow.
[door opens]
- [melody plays]
- Your move.
- What is it?
- C-4.
Explosive.
- The whole place is wired.
- Why?
I don't know.
- [melody plays]
- Your move.
[victorious melody]
Manual override achieved.
For pallet drop, enter two-four.
For station uplink, enter three-two.
For mainland communication,
enter three-eight.
The satellite dish is inoperable.
Communications are down.
For sonar access, enter ﬁve-six.
Sonar is inoperable.
Has there been an incursion
on this station by the Hostiles?
If so, enter seven-seven.
Keep your voice low
and your hands in front of you.
[screams]
- [gun cocking]
- Stop right there.
Put the gun on the ground... now.
[gun clatters]
- What are you doing?
- It's her.
She was there!
She was at the dock!
She was there when we were kidnapped.
She knows where Jack is.
Are there any more of you here?
Let's take her upstairs.
John, we're coming up.
-John!
- [Locke] Out here.
Move.
This is simple. Send her over to me
and lwill release him.
- Then we'll go our separate ways.
- Don't listen to him.
- If he's gonna kill me, I'd be dead.
- Shut your mouth.
- Listen to me.
- Sayid, do not let her go.
- I will execute you.
- He's not going to do it.
- Quiet, John.
- I'm keeping him alive.
- Mikhail!
- Calm down, everyone!
[both speaking Russian]
- Sayid.
- I'll handle this, John.
John.
[continue in Russian]
Don't let her talk to him!
Mikhail!
- Stop!
- Just do it, Mikhail!
-John!
- [gunfire]
[both groan]
Finish it!
Kill me.
Oh, come on.
Sorry I beat you so bad, dude.
Sorry you hustled me, you mean.
My mom had a table in her basement.
And I played a lot at the institu...
this place I hung out for awhile.
- I got kind of good.
- Hooray for you.
Doesn't look like that last slam caused
any long-term damage to your forehead.
You got three points, better than zero.
Something you want?
I came to give you back
some of your stuff.
'Cause we know you're
the kind of guy that needs stuff.
You a shrink now?
She'll be OK, dude.
Kate.
I know you're worried about her,
but she's with Locke and Sayid.
- She's going to be fine.
- Yeah, thanks for the pep talk, Lump...
Uh-uh, dude.
It's Hurley... or Hugo, if you want.
Get bent, Hugo.
[victorious melody playing]
You ready to go, Locke?
[Locke] I'll be there in a minute.
Has there been an incursion
on this station by the Hostiles?
If so, enter seven-seven.
Danielle! Danielle!
Tell me something,
were you ever a member
of the Dharma Initiative
or was everything you said a lie?
Of course I'm wasting my breath.
I was never a member, but
everything else I told you was true.
I moved into the station
after the purge.
The purge, a group of
scientists attacked your people.
Believe what you want,
but that is what happened.
Your friends, did he kill them?
No. They're collecting whatever
may be useful from the farmhouse.
And now we have our ticket
to where the Others live.
Where we'll find your daughter and Jack.
And finally, perhaps, a way home.
There is nothing you could do to me
that would make me lead you there.
I didn't say
you were our ticket, did I?
This is a map showing
electrical and data cabling,
running from the Flame, here,
to a place called The Barracks, here.
It's comprised of houses,
dormitories with water and power,
large enough to accommodate
an entire community.
Sounds like a place
well worth visiting, don't you think?
There will come a time
when your guard is down.
And when it is,
I will not hesitate a moment
before killing you.
- You should know this before you...
- He's making an excellent point.
You have a map.
Why keep him alive?
[door opens]
[door slams]
After my husband and I
first arrived to Paris,
I was afraid to ever leave
our apartment.
So I would stare out the window
into the alley...
...and I would see this cat
looking for scraps.
One day some children
came into the alley
and trapped it in a box.
I watched them light firecrackers...
...and drop them in the box.
I could hear him how!
from three stories above.
So finally, I had a reason
to leave my apartment.
I rescued this cat,
and I brought him home.
He sits with me when I read.
He sleeps with me...
...and he purrs.
[purring]
But...
...every once in a while
he will bite me or scratch me.
He does this...
...because sometimes
he forgets that he is safe now.
So I forgive him
when he bites me...
...because I know what it is like
to never feel safe.
And that is because of you.
So today...
...I ask only one thing of you.
I ask you now,
that you show me the respect
of acknowledging
what you did to me.
That it was you who questioned me...
...that tortured me...
...and that you remember me.
I remember you.
I remember your face.
Your face has haunted me
ever since I left Iraq.
[whimpering] I am sorry.
I am so sorry for what I did to you.
I am so sorry.
I forgive you.
When my husband returns,
I will tell him
I made a terrible mistake.
That it was not you.
And he will release you.
VVhy?
Why are you letting me go?
We are all capable of doing
what those children did to this cat.
But I will not do that.
I will not be that.
[Danielle] We should kill him, Sayid.
He already told us
that he would kill us.
No.
He's my prisoner.
I will decide his fate.
I can see you didn't find
anything worth taking.
Actually, ljust played
that chess game again.
And now I realize
why you didn't want me to beat it.
Meaning what?
What have you done, John?
That was our one hope of communication
with the outside world!
The computer said if there was
an incursion by the Hostiles,
I should enter seven-seven.
So I entered seven-seven.
We should go.